# Network Inventory weekly call (March 30, 2021)

## Participants
- Aihua Guo
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Haomian Zheng
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Sergio Belotti
- Yu Chaode
- Zhang Chenfang

## Admin

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- April 6th at 3pm CEST / 9am NAEDT / 9pm CST
- April 13th at 3pm CEST / 9am NAEDT / 9pm CST

## Discussion

### Report of IETF 113 discussion

Notes from the meeting are available: https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-113-ccamp

Recording of the meeting also available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UxRbfT52UF8

Discussions still on-going regarding:
- where to progress this work
- scalability issues

Haomian has prepared a mail to send to Rob and to CCAMP chairs/AD to get feedbacks about how to move forward with this draft

- [ ] Haomian: send the mail to Rob and to CCAMP chairs/AD to get feedbacks about how to move forward with this draft

### Integration efficiency issue (issue #32)

> - [ ] Jeff/Anton will check internally about scalability and report to all the feedback.

Aihua: it could be interesting to make a test, in case we decide to go for a flat model, trying to get a list of single object (e.g., transceivers) check if Restconf has still problem of scalability.

Chaode: with flat model it is easy for client and server to align with the content of the model.

Changing the model to a flat approach may not be sufficient to resolve the scalability issue; for example some export mechanism is required which is a protocol issue.

- [ ] Aihua: check if there are some export mechanisms in OpenConfig

T-API streaming improves the resynchronization when the client and server are initially connected or when they lose temporarily communication.

Split the discussion into two issues:
- modelling approach
- protocol scalability

The flat model can still be considered as an option e.g., for readability and for alignment between client and server (to get better understanding of what are the real objects).

The solution for the model should be selected considering pros&cons from a modelling perspective.

The solution for the protocol scalability can be generalized and submitted as a separated draft (e.g., to Netconf).

- [ ] Everybody: prepare a list of pros&cons of the different modelling approaches for review during next week

- [ ] Jeff: to check with Anton whether the flat modelling can simplify the mapping to the internal database structure
