# Network Inventory weekly call (November 23, 2022)

## Participants

- Aihua Guo
- Jeff Bouquier
- Paolo Volpato
- Sergio Belotti
- Victor Lopez
- Yu Chaode

## Discussion

### Inventory models coordination (issue #26)

Sergio: I don’t see any overlap with the other draft, but i concern that these argument will delay our work.

Jeff: I will send an email to the mailing list to tell that, from our operators perspective, the inventory data model we are working on is the inventory data we want and there is no overlap with the other drafts.

### Next steps

Jeff: I am still hoping that there could be some feedback from IP products and this data model should also cover IP technology. I will try to ask Cisco friends to join our discussion.

### Model navigation between inventory and topology (issue #33)

Jeff: For solution3, i remembered that Huawei didn't provide UUID format in 2019 POC test.

Chaode: Yes, the version we used in 2019 POC test is a test version. Our developers prefer uuid format right now, because it is easier to be unique.

Jeff: OK, but I cannot confirm which solution is the best solution for the navigation.

Chaode: Maybe we can share this slide with Anton, he can help to make a judge from orchestrator’s perspective.

### Location/position information  (issues #3 and #41)

Related issues:
- Structure for location/position information (issue #3)
- UUID-based location/position information (issue #41)

Chaode: For issue #3, we all agreed to provide a string format for the components' location. And for IP technology, if the there are some other type component, we just need to modify the pattern which could be compatible. And for issue #41, we have actually provide UUID information in the parent-references structure, so a uuid-based location is not needed.

Jeff: yes, the uuid-based location is not needed. And for the equipment room's name, i remember we have define it in the someplace.

Chaode: The equipment room's name is the location of network element.

Issue #41 can be closed

### Examples

Chaode: I will work out some example for the first two scenarios, and the example for the last scenario could be provide after the MPO port modeling discussion. 

Jeff: I can ask Cisco friend to help to check whether there are any missing scenarios. And please Nokia and Huawei also help to do this investigation.
