# Network Inventory weekly call (January 11, 2023)

## Participants

- Aihua Guo
- Bo Wu
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Sergio Belotti
- Yu Chaode

## Admin

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- January 18th at 3pm CET / 9am NA EST / 10pm CST
- February 1st at 3pm CET / 9am NA EST / 10pm CST

January 25th is Spring Festival in China and East Asia. It has been agreed to cancel the call on January 25th

## Discussion

### Tom Petch WG adoption poll comments (issue #58)

> 'To be added'  features 25 times, TBD 9 times, 'to be enriched' 4 times so there is plenty to do - perhaps more authors are needed!
> 

We need to review the document and check that all these issues are tracked in github. The plan is to resolve them through normal WG process once the document is adopted as CCAMP WG draft.

- [ ] Chaode: review the document

> I think that two letter prefixes should be avoided except for modules that will appear many times in path statements as e.g. te does
> 

The module name will be renamed as ietf-network-hardware-inventory to better match its scope so the prefix can be changed to nhi

> RFC6933 is in the module needs adding to I-D references
> 

Ok, agreed

- [ ] Chaode: add RFC6933 as a normative reference

> import of inet lacks a reference
> 

Ok, agreed (the reference to be added is RFC6991)

- [ ] Chaode: add a reference to the inet import and add this as a normative reference to the document

> ianahw is, well an IANA web site so needs a URL as a reference.
> 

Not sure this is required

- [ ] Italo: check RFC8407 and, if needed, ask Netmod WG for input

> revision clauses need to go at some point - perhaps this is an exercise to see if what the NETMOD WG is proposing is viable
> 

Ok, agreed

- [ ] Italo/Chaode: fix the revision clauses

> lots of string with no constraint; given the prior art in SMI perhaps constraints similar to those of SMI would be appropriate.
> 

Using string with no constraint is quite common practice in IETF YANG models but we can check with Netmod WG for guidelines

- [ ] Italo: check with Netmod WG for guidelines (start a new thread from previous discussion triggered by Tom)

> the tmforum web site tells me that the reference is to an old version of the asset
> 

- [ ] Sergio: check with TM Forum experts

### Chassis location (issue #61)

It has been noted that the model is missing the relative location of the chassis within the rack

- [ ] Chaode: add this attribute to the model

Issue #61 has been created to track this action

### Geolocation information (issue #62)

Bo suggested also to consider using the geolocation instead of location for the equipment-room

Issue #62 has been created to track this topic

### Remove rack-number (issue #63)

It has been agreed to remove the rack-number attribute since it is not needed. The row-number and column-number should be sufficient to identify where the rack is located within the equipment room. The uuid, name, description and alias should be sufficient to identify the rack within the network.

- [ ] Chaode: remove the rack-number attribute from the model

Issue #63 has been created to track this action

### Number of authors (RFC7322) (issue #59)

- [ ] Chaode/Sergio: check with the CCAMP WG chairs whether this requirement should be fixed before WG adoption or before WG LC

### Bo WG adoption call comments (issue #60)

> 1) This draft title is ‘A YANG Data Model for Optical Network Inventory’, but the YANG module name is “ietf-network-inventory”.  Is it better to be consistent to be named as “ietf-optical-network-inventory”?
> 

This issue has been already clarified by Chaode and Bo on the CCAMP WG mailing list: this draft is addressing network hardware inventory for Optical, IP and MW networks. 

> 2) The draft states RFC 8345 recommends that network inventory should be augmentation to “ietf-network”, but there is no analysis on this. Can you add some description to this?
> 

To be discussed next week

> 3) “equipment-room” definition is related to specific implementation. Could you change it to “site”?  For example, some enterprise networks can be distributed in different geographical areas, not limited to several equipment rooms. Generally, multiple racks are aggregated by “site”.
> 

To be discussed next week

> 4) The model is limited to hardware inventory. Why is software not included in the optical network inventory?
> 

In IP network there is also the need for software inventory as well as virtual (NFV-based) components

Jeff: this is needed for virtual CPE and virtual BNG but for IP routers this is not needed

Bo: but virtual CPE actually is a router

Jeff/Fabio: the focus of this draft is the actual router and not the virtual components since there is no IETF standard YANG model for IP router inventory

Italo: maybe we can keep the virtual components outside the scope of our work but check that the model can be extended to support them in the future

This issue requires further investigation: issue #64 has been added to track this issue
