# Network Inventory weekly call (December 17, 2021)

## Participants
- Aihua Guo
- Anton Snitser
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Sergio Belotti
- Yu Chaode

## Admin

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- December 22nd at 2:30pm CET / 8:30am EST / 9:30pm China
- January 12th at 2:30pm CET / 8:30am EST / 9:30pm China
- January 19th at 2:30pm CET / 8:30am EST / 9:30pm China

After January 26th, the calls will overlap with ITU-T Q14/15 calls. The network inventory calls can be postponed to 3pm CET / 9am EST / 10pm China to avoid the conflict. To be checked via e-mail. In the meanwhile, we will keep the current schedule

- [ ] Italo: check if everybody is fine to postpone the weekly calls to 3pm CET / 9am EST / 10pm China

## Discussion

### Disambiguate the concept of inventory (issue #26)

Review from Chaode of other OPSAWG drafts related with Inventory

see https://github.com/italobusi/ietf-network-inventory/issues/26#issuecomment-996390349

**draft-palmero-opsawg-dmlmo-02**：here there is some overlapping with our draft. "Asset" in this draft should have the same meaning of our "component". It considers Hw asset so it is close to our draft.

**draft-claise-opsawg-collected-data-manifest-00**: inventory of yang models capabilities of device

**draft-ietf-opsawg-sbom-access-03**: different type of inventory, just SW inventory.

**draft-dbwb-opsawg-sap-00**:
Anton: the draft is trying to find UNI ports in the network and the service capable ports. Not inventory. IP service capable ports.
To expose an abstracted view of a very simple of connectivity matrix. Just edge ports.
Italo: it is an inventory of topological element.
Anton: which ports are service capable, e.g. I can setup L2 or L3 VPN service on these ports.
No contention at alla with respect our draft.
Is is very IP oriented draft.

Regarding again the first draft:

Italo/Aihua: need to qualify the term inventory, HW inventory, or topology inventory or other.

Jeff: we need to clarify that we are focusing on hardware network inventory. Our objective is simpler than what is in this draft. Even if there is some overlap, our scope is a bit clear.

Anton: we have a subset of what it is happening

Italo: if it is a subset, a profile can still be used so this model can be modularized to allow using only the asset or augmenting the definition of the asset inventory

Anton: another solution is to put our inventory model within the draft. May need to check what is the difference between our data model and their asset data model

Italo: it seems that the structure is already modular, section 6.1.1 defines an asset inventory model which can be used as a stand-alone model and it might support our needs. We need to review the YANG model in 6.1.1 in more details.

Aihua: we should compare this module with our model and see if we can extract the common parts

Italo: not sure if the model applies to device and/or controllers but it looks like quite generic and applicable on multiple scenarios (including controller's NBI)

Anton: it seems applicable to any scenario where you have different applications, servers, ... and you want to manage them in the same controller. Our model was meant to be more specific for a transport/provider network environment. This model may probably lack some specificities we need in our environment

- [ ] **All**: review the ietf-lmo-assets-inventory model at 6.1.1 section of the draft-palmero-opsawg-dmlmo-02 and compare with our proposed model
- [ ] **Italo**: clarify with the other people in OPSAWG that our draft is dealing with network hardware inventory and potentially overlaps with the ietf-lmo-assets-inventory model

