# Network Inventory weekly call (June 8, 2021)

## Participants

- Aihua Guo
- Jeff Bouquier
- Sergio Belotti
- Yu Chaode

## Admin

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

- June 15th at 3pm CEST / 9am NA EDT / 9pm CST
- June 22nd at 3pm CEST / 9am NA EDT / 9pm CST

## Discussion

YANG model update presented by Yuchaode. Extensions have been removed as agreed in last call.
Rack container outside the rack list. 
Location information for the rack: equipment-room, row-number and column-number.
Additional attributes added for the rack: height, width, depth and max-voltage.

Review of the attributes excel table from Yuchaode. Part number is covered by model name but model-name will be renamed to part-number for sake of clarity.

Discussions if we could have a generic approach for the attributes per component instead of defining subset of attributes for different components. An attribute not supported is not reported by a given component.Agreed to use same attributes schema defined in RFC8348 for all components but then one component instance (e.g. a port) is only reporting some of the attributes that makes sense.

Decision to remove state information (e.g. admin-state, oper-state) because here we are focusing on physical inventory and not logical inventory (RFC8348 is a management model including logical state information).

Agreed that rack-location and ne-location are specific with absolute location information while location shall be kept generic for components under NE indicating relative position of the component with respect to its parent component.

YANG tree updated during the call. Last version will be uploaded in github by Yuchaode.
