# Network Inventory weekly call (September 13, 2023)

## Participants

- Adrian Farrel
- Aihua Guo
- Alex Clemm
- Bo Wu
- Fabio Peruzzini
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Julien Meuric
- Nigel Davis
- Roberto Manzotti
- Sergio Belotti
- Yu Chaode

## Admin

### Closed Issue

None

### Next calls

- September 27th at 4pm CEST / 10am NA EDT / 10pm CST

## Discussion

## A proposal updating on draft & YANG module from Bo (issue #100)

There was no strong opinion to have or not separated roots for network-element and equipment-rooms

It has been noted that the current plan for the CCAMP WG draft is to generalize the model of equipment-rooms toward sites

There was discussion about whether equipment-rooms (sites) are or not part of the network inventory

In some UCs there is no need to report the equipment-rooms (sites) within the network inventory while in other UCs there is this need

The proposal to define equipment-rooms (sites) in a separated module would support a modular design where this module can be implemented only for the UCs where reporting the sites within the network inventory is required.

There was some discussion about the possibility to be more modular also when addressing SW components and licenses inventory requirements

However, it is not clear whether it is possible to achieve this objective through BC changes

For example, the inventory for licenses can be added through BC changes because the list of licenses is separated from other lists

The major technical issue is about adding SW components, through a BC changes, to a common list of HW and SW components. For example, the class attribute in the CCAMP WG draft cannot be extended in a BC way to support SW component types

It was mentioned that there are different options to update the component list in the CCAMP WG draft to allow adding SW component in a modular and BC way but there was no time to discuss them

It was agreed to work offline before the interim meeting to investigate the possibility to have a more modular and step-by-step approach for SW inventory

## Proposal for peer-mount (issue #102)

Alex presented a proposal for Peer-Mount, which provides a capability to mount subtrees from remote datastores into a local datastore analogous to mounting remote directories in a distributed file system.  This enables providing federated datastores with a holistic network view without the need for redundant models and copies of the same data across different systems.  Such a capability could become of interest in the future should increasing amounts of management data need to be integrated with network inventory data, for example current state of inventoried elements, data about interfaces, etc.  

The proposal was overall well-received, with several attendees contributing to the discussion, involving questions related to scalability, differences between peer-mount and schema-mount, instantiation vs modeling issues.  A 00 draft is in the works and Alex stated that the authors of Peer-Mount are looking for potential coauthors.  
