# Network Inventory weekly call (December 1, 2021)

## Participants
- Aihua Guo
- Anton Snitser
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Oscar González de Dios
- Sergio Belotti
- Victor Lopez
- Yu Chaode

## Admin

### Closed Issues

None

### Next calls

December 8th is a national holiday in some countries so the call is cancelled

December 15th there is a conflict with ITU-T meeting: the call is rescheduled to December 17th at 3pm CET

- December 17th at 3:00pm CET / 9:00am EST / 10:00pm China
- December 22nd at 2:30pm CET / 8:30am EST / 9:30pm China
- January 12th at 2:30pm CET / 8:30am EST / 9:30pm China

- [ ] Sergio: update the Webex invitations accordingly

## Discussion

### Schema Mount (issue #11)

Presentation from Oscar

Aihua:for inventory we should mount just the "state" information not the "config" part. Is it possible with schema-mount.
You can control the with schema point where to add the schema mount but you cannot control what will be really mounted e.g. if only state

Anton: at implementation there is a pre-negotiation about which modules have to be mounted.


Need to discuss whether we need the flexibility for run-time or we are fine with the implementation time.

Aihua: I do not think we need the run-time flexibility, rather something to constraint which model can be mounted

Italo: I agree, we need somtething more design time and we might emulate this using the implementation time

Aihua: during the last IETF meeting there was a draft trying to constrain which model could be mounted. If we leave it to implementation time we risk to need a lot of implementation agreements when interop is required

Victor: this is what the operators are proposing in TIP, we need to consider whether this approach is good for IETF as well or whether the current approach is preferable

Anton: my preference is the schema mount since it allows for vendors to mount their own models

Jeff: but this what we would like to avoid. TIP is trying to speed-up real deployments so it is based also on implementation agreements such that all the TIP operators can ask all the vendors to follow that implentation agreement. The ultimate goal for operators is to speed-up interoperability.

Anton: there is no agreement on standard inventory models so there will be a standard data model with some gaps

Aihua: one possibility in IETF is to standardize a framework for inventory (with mount-points) and then standardize specific module e.g technology specific.

It would be beneficial to have a JSON example to understand better how the subtree schema is encompassed in the main schema structure.

Victor/Oscar to check if it is possible to upload
the TIP material shown today, taking into account IETF rules.
